I think no words can properly express
how excited I am with this Deep Seek 3.2
release. So, let me list out the things
that got me this excited. Deep Seek has
pretty much beaten OpenAI's flagship
model that is GPT5 High and is
comparable to Gemini 3 Pro. It is the
cheapest Frontier AI model you would
ever expect. 10 times cheaper than any
state-of-the-art at this pace.
Intelligence will actually be too cheap
to meter. It's pretty much open source.
a state-of-the-art model that is a git
command away. Can you believe it? And
there are so many new technical insights
being shared, notably three really
interesting ones that I'll cover later.
With this Deep Seek 3.2 just being a
completion of their full RL experiments
and from the look of their conclusion,
their future Deep Seek V4 will probably
be insane. And there seems to be no wall
in sight with them ending their
technical report on the note that
compute is the actual differentiator
going forward. But I think it is in a
very elegant way. So for each of the
points I just mentioned I will be
explaining them in more details. And
before I dive into it with Deep Seek
bring amazing agentic functions to the
table and new AI models launching every
week. Figuring out which ones are
actually useful is becoming a full-time
job. Knowing exactly which model to use
and how to prompt it is also what
differentiates the typical users from
the seasoned users. So if you want to
skip the trial and error and go straight
to the tools that matter, there's a
faster way to do it. This free AID
decoded pocket guide from HubSpot cuts
right through the noise for you. They
are the ones digging through the tunnels
of AI to mine out the gems and deliver
them directly to you. Inside you'll find
a breakdown of exactly which model to
use for what, like why you should use
Claude for nuance writing but switch to
ChachiPT for STEM tasks. It also covers
the mustry GBTs for business from
specialized image generators to tools
like consensus for research and Taplio
for professional growth. My favorite
section is definitely the GRWC prompting
framework which stands for goal return
format warnings and context. The guide
explains how using this specific
structure can get you 55% better
results, effectively transforming
mediocre outputs into exceptional ones
just by tweaking how you ask the
question. So, if you're ready to upgrade
your toolkit and master the prompts that
seasoned prompters use, check out this
free HubSpot resource using the link
down description. And thank you HubSpot
for sponsoring this video. Anyway,
seeing DeepSeek being this brutally
honest about their model performance is
so entertaining to read, but I guess
they were never pretentious in their
claims before anyways, because usually
in their model releases, they will
always be like, "It is improved
benchmark performance, but this time
around, they just casually drop the bomb
that V3.2 2 is better than GPT5 high,
which is what I like to see. But it's
not actually the version 3.2 that beat
the model. It's the 3.2 special.
>> Oo, I'm definitely not trying to
pronounce that. Let's just call it the
3.2 special model because this time they
actually published two models. The 3.2
model is a well-rounded model and the
3.2 special is a model trained
specifically for extended reasoning.
They made this version so that they
could kind of test the ceiling of their
3.2 model, but getting a pretty much
state-of-the-art model is probably still
a surprise to them. Initially, without
the special version, the model's
performance is slightly behind GPD5 High
and probably a tiny bit better than Kim
K2 and around Miniax M2 level. But with
special, it outperformed all the models
on the current hardest public math
benchmarks. And this trend also shows on
private math evals. The only subpar
aspect about it is its coding, which is
a tiny bit behind Gemini 3 Pro, but it's
still BGPD5 high across the board. And
that is not the only good part. This is
a benchmark created by a Chinese blogger
that is posted on Zoo. And the
benchmarking cost here is calculated by
how many tokens are used by each model
to complete all the benchmarks with 3.2
special using double the amount of the
tokens, but still being at least 10
times cheaper overall. Can you believe
that?
>> Again, they are not making losses on
this. 3.2 is just that cheap for
inference. This blog also contained more
detailed enduser performance analysis
like it being an extremely strong
mathematical and scientific reasoning
model with limitations in spatial
reasoning, coding, and long context
hallucination prevention. And this cost
reduction is also something new to
Deepseek. In their official Deepseek 3.2
technical report, they compared the
inference cost between 3.1 Terminus and
3.2 2. And look at this, okay? Deepseek
3.1 Terminus is already a really
efficient model to begin with, but
Deepseek 3.2's cost efficiency has
gotten so good that it became the
X-axis. Can you believe that?
>> And you know what's the most absurd part
about this? This model is literally one
git command away from you. It's free.
You can download it, but not necessarily
run it because it is still a 685 billion
parameters model. But the point being
this is mind-blowing. It's like
experiencing DeepSeek R1 all over again.
And you know what Sam Olman responded to
this Deepseek release? A code red where
they're delaying their products like
integrating ad into ChachiBT and going
back to research. Well, they still
pushed out the ad. But yeah, it just
looks really rushed. Well, I guess
that's one less reason to use ChachiVT.
But anyways, the amazing thing about
what DeepS has achieved here is not
through some simple scaling, but a lot
of clever research with scaling. So, how
have they done it? Well, a great thing
about open source research is that it's
all online for us to read it ourselves.
But going through everything might take
too much time for you. So, I'll be
highlighting three of my favorite
points. The first being DSA, short for
Deep Seek Attention. This attention
mechanism in 3.2 is not completely new.
It was released as an experimental model
earlier in September 2025 under the name
Deepseek 3.2 exp which was made with the
sole purpose to test out DSA at scale.
So they already have a paper along with
this release that explain DSA in depth
too. In short 3.2 experiment uses the
same exact architecture as Deepseek 3.1
Terminus but they swapped out the MLA
with DSA from 3.1 Terminus and continue
to train on. I put it into a table here
so it's easier to visualize the
difference and to explain what makes DSA
so good without going into the
technicals. So instead of doing the
typical attention calculation
immediately, DSA first runs a lightning
indexer. This is a lightweight module
that quickly scans all previous tokens
and it computes a rough relevant score
to determine which previous tokens are
potentially important for the current
step. Then based on the rough scores,
it'll select the top K most relevant
tokens and discards the rest. So the
actual attention is only run on this top
K subset. Lowering the compute from big
O of L squared to big O of LK where K is
the subset of the top K tokens. This not
only makes the compute incredibly cheap
but the cost doesn't explode the longer
you use the context window. Like if you
remember some state-of-the-art models
have different prices when you use past
the 100k or 200k context window. That is
because the quadratic attention cost
could start to slow the model down and
increase the computational cost. So, we
would assume this skipping by DSA would
make the model hallucinate or forget
things in longer context. While their
technical report shows that it doesn't
on third party benchmarks like context
arena, which is a much harder benchmark,
it still kind of suffered. But without
hammering that much in depth, they were
still able to keep up the accuracy on
par with the standard models. So, I
guess only really intensive needle in a
haststack use cases where that would be
more obvious. The second part I find
fascinating is the specialist distilled
training. Usually, it's hard to train
one general model to be a genius at
everything simultaneously, especially
using RL. So, Deep Sea took a divide and
conquer approach. They trained six
distinct specialist models on top of 3.2
experiment exclusively. And for each,
they let these specialists to run wild
with massive RL budgets. And once they
become top tier in their respective
specialtity, they distill them, which is
the process of having each of them
generate thousands of highquality
reasoning traces and answers. Then they
took this extremely expensive synthetic
data and used it to train the main 3.2
model. So you skip the downsides of RL,
yet you obtain the quality of RL, so you
can apply RL even more effectively later
on when it's needed. For the RL
algorithm, they are still using GRPO by
the way, but an updated GRPO that has an
unbiased parameter. So most of the
technical errors you read about earlier
this year have already been fixed.
However, the RL post training this time
around is huge. It took up 10% of the
total compute compared to Deepcar1 which
was only around 1%. But where did all
these RL data come from? Which brings us
to the third part that is deep glimma
testing how good synthesizing agentic
tasks would be. With how practical AI
agents are, a huge bottleneck is born
where it's pretty much impossible to
obtain large amounts of highquality data
of AI agents using tools correctly
because these kinds of precise tool use
data does not really exist where it has
to contain how AI would successfully
navigate a complex software environment,
right? Someone or at least something has
to create it out of thin air. So they
limit test this by creating a large
scale pipeline that would generate this
data for a general tool use environment.
They actually build an agent whose sole
job is to build environments for other
agents to train in. It goes from
creating a database sandbox and writing
unique Python tools that can be used to
interact with it to inventing a
difficult task that requires those tools
to solve all while creating a task that
is hard to solve but easy to verify. For
coding environments, they mind millions
of GitHub issues. And instead of just
reading the static code like most
models, they built a setup agent that
creates executable RL environments. it
will install the packages, resolve
dependency, and actually run the unit
tests. This pretty much gives them an
infinite supply of executable training
scenarios without needing a single human
to label any RL environments. And it
turns out that the synthesized
environments are actually hard enough
for the models. And when trained in
these environments, the model also sees
a huge jump in performance. And they
were able to scale this method to create
tens of thousands of unique tasks. So
what's special about 3.2 too special is
that it didn't use all these highquality
training data but only the reasoning
data on top of a more relaxed length
penalty to enable longer reasoning. So
it was trained more like a specialist
unlike standard 3.2 which is more of a
generalist. So with this many cool new
proven techniques now shared with
everyone. What's exciting to look at
next is definitely their conclusion
limitations and future work section. The
first thing that caught my eyes is that
they kind of hinted the moat might still
be compute with them admitting that 3.2
two lacks behind Gemini 3 Pro in world
knowledge simply because they didn't
burn enough flops during pre-training to
inject more knowledge. This definitely
implies that they are going to ball very
hard for Deep Seek V4. So V3.2 is pretty
much them wrapping up what they can do
with RL experimenting and scaling. I
mean or else they would call this
release V4. Another point about the
compute mode is that most of the
techniques they came up with in this
paper are ultimately pointing to data
synthesis. So the more compute you have,
the more you can synthesize. And the
same goes for RL training. But by cloud,
there are so many other companies with
so much more compute but seemingly hit
the wall. How did Deepse seek still able
to stand out on top? Well, after my
careful diagnostics, I think this is a
case of skill issue or what they would
call in Chinese.
From the way that the Blue Well is
tackling all these problems, there does
not seem to be a wall in sight. Just a
bunch of S-curves waiting to be stacked
up. Deep Sea kind of shows that if the
model isn't getting smarter, it's
probably not because of the architecture
is dead. Garbage in, garbage out. If
such a small scale company can squeeze
this much performance gains, it really
paints a different light to the AI is
hitting a wall narrative. While compute
is still the actual differentiator going
forward, they still highlighted an
important idea that is intelligence
density. If you remember this table from
earlier, in order for V3.2 2 special to
match the performance of Gemini 3 Pro,
it pretty much needs to generate twice
as many tokens. And even though in the
end 3.2 Special is still 10 times
cheaper, it still has to think longer
and harder to arrive at the same
conclusion that Gemini gets to with much
less tokens. So the next hurdle that
Deep Seek will also work on as they
state is to find out how to improve
their token efficiency. Anyways, it
still amazed me Deepseek is so capable
that they are able to bring two
revolutional research within just one
year. Like, can you even believe we got
this and Deepseek R1 both in 2025? And
yeah, if you like today's video,
definitely go check out my newsletter
where I cover the latest research papers
weekly. And thank you guys for watching.
A big shout out to Spam Match, Chris
Leoo, Degan, Robert, Zaviasa, Marcelo,
Ferraria, Proof Any New DX Research
Group, Alex, and many others that
support me through Patreon or YouTube.
Follow me on Twitter if you haven't and
I'll see you in the next